##### 5/05/2020
# `Object` Overview

```js

```

---

## Syntax:
``

* **** (Optional): 

---

## Description:
The `Object` class represents on of `JS`'s data types.  It is used to store various keyed collections and more complex entities.  `Objects` can be created using the `Object()` constructor or the `object` initializer/literal syntax.

Nearly all `objects` in `JS` are instances of `Object`; a typical `object` inherits properties (including methods) from `Object.prototype`, although these properties may be shadowed (a.k.a. overridden). However, an `Object` may be deliberately created for which this is not true (e.g. by `Object.create(null)`), or it may be altered so that this is no longer true (e.g. with `Object.setPrototypeOf`).

Changes to the `Object` prototype `object` are seen by all `objects` through prototype chaining, unless the properties and methods subject to those changes are overridden further along the prototype chain. This provides a very powerful although potentially dangerous mechanism to override or extend `object` behavior.

The `Object` constructor creates an `object` wrapper for the given value.

If the value is `null` or `undefined`, it will create and return an empty `object`.
Otherwise, it will return an `object` of a Type that corresponds to the given value.
If the value is an `object` already, it will return the value.

When called in a non-constructor context, `Object` behaves identically to `new Object()`.

## Deleting a Property From An `Object`:
There isn't any method in an `Object` itself to delete its own properties (such as `Map.prototype.delete()`).  To do so, one must use the [delete operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/delete).

---

## Constructor:
**`Object()`**
  > The `Object` constructor creates an `object` wrapper for the given value.

---

## Static Methods:
**`Object.assign()`**
  > Copies the values of all enumerable own properties from one or more source `objects` to a target `object`.

**`Object.create()`**
  > Creates a new `object` with the specified prototype `object` and properties.

**`Object.definePrototype()`**
  > Adds the named properties described by a given descriptor to an `object`.

**`Object.entries()`**
  > Returns an `array` containing all of the `[key, value]` paries of a given `object`'s **own** enumerable `string` properties.

**`Object.freeze()`**
  > Freezes an `object`.  Other code cannot delete or change its properties.

**`Object.fromEntries()`**
  > Returns a new `object` from an iterable of `[key, value]` pairs (this is opposite from `Object.entries()`).

**`Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()`**
  > Returns a property descriptor for a named property on an `object`.

**`Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptors()`**
  > Returns the `object` containing all own property descriptors for an `object`.

**`Object.getOwnPropertyNames()`**
  > Returns an `array` containing the names of all of the given `object`'s **own** enumerable and non-enumerable properties.

**`Object.getOwnPropertySymbols()`**
  > Returns an `array` of all symbol properties found directly upon a given `object`.

**`Object.getPrototypeOf()`**
  > Returns the prototype (internal `[[Prototype]]` property) of the specified `object`.

**`Object.is()`**
  > Compares if two values are the same value.  Equates all `NaN` values (which differ from both Abstract Equity Comparison and Strict Equity Comparison).

**`Object.isExtensible()`**
  > Determines if extending of an `object` is allowed.

**`Object.isFrozen()`**
  > Determines if an `object` was frozen.

**`Object.isSealed()`**
  > Determines if an `object` is sealed.

**`Object.keys()`**
  > Returns an `array` containing the names of all of the given `object`'s **own** enumerable `string` properties.

**`Object.preventExtensions()`**
  > Prevents any extensions of an `object`.

**`Object.seal()`**
  > Prevents other code from deleting properties of an `object`.

**`Object.setPrototypeOf()`**
  > Sets the `object`'s prototype (its internal `[[Prototype]]` property).

**`Object.values()`**
  > Returns an `array` containing the values that correspond to all of a given `object`'s **own** enumerable `string` properties.

---

## `Object` Instances and `Object` Prototype `Object`:
All `objects` in `JS` are descended from `Object`.  All `objects` inherit methods and properties from `Object.prototype`, although they may be overridden.

For example, other constructor's prototypes override the `constructor` property and provide their own `toString()` methods.  Changes to the `Object` prototype `object ` are propagated to all `objects`, unless the properties and methods subject to those changes are overridden further along the prototype chain.

---

## Instance Properties:
**`Object.prototype.constructor`**
  > Specifies the `function` that creates an `object`'s prototype.
  
**`Object.prototype.__proto__`**
  > Points to the `object` which was used as prototype when the `object` was instantiated.

**`Object.prototype.__noSuchMethod__`**
  > Allows a `function` to be defined that will be executed when an undefined `object` member is called as a method.

---

## Instance Methods: 
**`Object.prototype__defineGetter__()`**
  > Associates a `function` with a property that, when accessed, executes that `function` and returns its return value.

**`Object.prototype.__defineSetter__()`**
  > Associates a `function` with a property that, when set, executes that `function` which modifies the property.

**`Object.prototype.__lookupGetter__()`**
  > Returns the `function` associated with the specified property by the `__defineGetter__()` method.

**`Object.prototype.__lookupSetter__()`**
  > Returns the `function` associated with the specified property by the `__defineSetter__()` method.

**`Object.prototype. hasOwnProperty()`**
  > Returns a `boolean` indicating whether an `object` contains the specified property as a direct property of that `object` and not inherited through the prototype chain.

**`Object.prototype.isPrototypeOf()`**
  > Returns a `boolean` indicating if the internal [`ECMAScript` [[Enumerable]] attribute`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Properties) is set.

**`Object.prototype.toLocaleString()`**
  > Calls `toString()`.

**`Object.prototype.toString()`**
  > Returns a `string` representation of the `object`.

**`Object.prototype.unwatch()`**
  > Removes a watchpoint from a property of the `object`.

**`Object.prototype.valueOf()`**
  > Returns the primitive value of the specified `object`.

**`Object.prototype.watch()`**
  > Adds a watchpoint to a property of the `object`.

---

## Specifications
| Specification | Year | Status | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
| ECMAScript 1st Edition | 1997 | Standard | Initial definition |
| ECMAScript 3rd Edition | 1999 | Standard |  |
| ECMAScript 5.1 | 2011 | Standard |  |
| ECMAScript 2015 (6th Edition) | 2015 | Standard |  |
| ECMAScript 2016 | 2016 | Standard |  |
| ECMAScript Latest Draft | 2019 | Draft |  |

---

## Browser Compatibility:
| `Object` | Browser | Platform |
|---|---|---|---|
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1**</span> | **Chrome** | Desktop | 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**12**</span> | **Edge** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1**</span> | **Firefox** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**3**</span> | **IE** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**3**</span> | **Opera** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1**</span> | **Safari** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1**</span> | **Android Webview** | Mobile | 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**18**</span> | **Chrome for Android** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**4**</span> | **Firefox for Android** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**10.1**</span> | **Opera for Android** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1**</span> | **Safari on iOS** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**1.0**</span> | **Samsung Internet** || 
| <span style="color: lightgreen">**Yes**</span> | **Node.js** | Server | 

<span style="color: lightgreen">Full Support</span>  
<span style="color: grey">Compatibility Unknown</span>  
<span style="color: red">No Support</span>

---

[MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)